docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# PrivyDrop - System Architecture Overview

This document provides a high-level overview of the PrivyDrop project's overall architecture, helping developers understand how the various technical components work together.

## 1. Core Components

The PrivyDrop system is primarily composed of the following core parts:

1.  **Frontend**: A Single Page Application (SPA) built with Next.js. It's the interface users interact with, responsible for handling file selection, UI presentation, and initiating WebRTC connections.
2.  **Backend**: A server built with Node.js and Express. It does not handle any file data. Its core responsibilities are:
    - **Signaling Service**: Implemented with Socket.IO, it relays signaling messages (like SDP and ICE Candidates) for the "handshake" process before a WebRTC connection is established.
    - **Room Management**: Handles the creation, joining, and status checking of rooms.
    - **API Service**: Provides auxiliary HTTP endpoints.
3.  **Redis**: An in-memory database used by the backend to store temporary data, such as room information and lists of participants, utilizing its TTL feature for automatic cleanup of expired rooms.
4.  **TURN/STUN Server (Optional)**: Used to assist WebRTC with NAT traversal, ensuring a higher success rate for P2P connections in complex network environments. STUN is used to discover public IP addresses, while TURN serves as a fallback relay server. (This feature is not enabled by default in the current setup).

## 2. Data Flow and Interaction Diagram

The following diagram illustrates the main flow for users establishing a connection and transferring files:

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "User A's Browser"
        ClientA[Frontend UI]
    end
    subgraph "User B's Browser"
        ClientB[Frontend UI]
    end

    subgraph "Server Infrastructure"
        Nginx[Nginx Reverse Proxy]
        Backend[Backend API / Socket.IO]
        Redis[Redis Cache]
        TURN[TURN/STUN Server]
    end

    ClientA -- 1.&nbsp;Create/Join Room (HTTP/Socket) --> Nginx
    Nginx --> Backend
    Backend -- Read/Write Room Status --> Redis

    ClientB -- 2.&nbsp;Join Same Room (HTTP/Socket) --> Nginx

    Backend -- 3.&nbsp;Broadcast user join event --> ClientA
    Backend -- 3.&nbsp;Broadcast user join event --> ClientB

    ClientA -- 4.&nbsp;Send Signal (Offer/ICE) --> Backend
    Backend -- 5.&nbsp;Forward Signal --> ClientB
    ClientB -- 6.&nbsp;Send Signal (Answer/ICE) --> Backend
    Backend -- 7.&nbsp;Forward Signal --> ClientA

    ClientA <-.-> |8.&nbsp;STUN Check| TURN
    ClientB <-.-> |8.&nbsp;STUN Check| TURN

    ClientA <-..- |9.&nbsp;P2P Direct Data Transfer| ClientB
    ClientA <-.-> |9.&nbsp;TURN Relayed Data Transfer| TURN
    ClientB <-.-> |9.&nbsp;TURN Relayed Data Transfer| TURN
```

**Flow Description:**

1.  **Room Creation/Joining**: User A (the sender) requests the backend to create a unique room ID via the frontend. The backend records this room in Redis.
2.  **Sharing & Joining**: User A shares the room ID with User B via a link or QR code. User B uses this ID to request joining the room.
3.  **Signaling Exchange**:
    - Once there are two or more users in a room, they begin exchanging WebRTC signaling messages through the backend's Socket.IO service.
    - This process includes exchanging network information (ICE candidates) and session descriptions (SDP offers/answers). The backend server acts merely as a "postman" for these messages, forwarding them without understanding their content.
4.  **NAT Traversal**: The browsers use the network information obtained from the signals, along with STUN/TURN servers, to attempt and establish a direct P2P connection.
5.  **P2P Connection Established**: Once the connection is successfully established, all file and text data are transferred directly between User A's and User B's browsers, without passing through any server. If a direct connection fails, data will be relayed through a TURN server.

## 3. Design Philosophy

- **Privacy First**: Core file data is never uploaded to the server. The server only acts as an "introducer" or "matchmaker."
- **Frontend-Backend Separation**: Responsibilities are clearly separated. The frontend handles all user interaction and the complex logic of WebRTC; the backend provides lightweight, efficient signaling and room management services.
- **Horizontal Scalability**: The backend is stateless (with state managed in Redis), which theoretically allows it to be scaled horizontally by adding more Node.js instances to handle a large volume of concurrent signaling requests.

Commit message:

chore(doc):Update document
Update the document to include the latest changes: file continuation, introduction of Zustand to the front-end architecture.

docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# PrivyDrop - System Architecture Overview

This document provides a high-level overview of the PrivyDrop project's overall architecture, helping developers understand how the various technical components work together.

## 1. Core Components

The PrivyDrop system is primarily composed of the following core parts:

1.  **Frontend**: A Single Page Application (SPA) built with Next.js. It's the interface users interact with, responsible for handling file selection and UI presentation. It features a modern, layered architecture with a clear separation between the UI (React Components), centralized state management (Zustand), and the core WebRTC business logic, which is encapsulated in a framework-agnostic service layer.
2.  **Backend**: A server built with Node.js and Express. It does not handle any file data. Its core responsibilities are:
    - **Signaling Service**: Implemented with Socket.IO, it relays signaling messages (like SDP and ICE Candidates) for the "handshake" process before a WebRTC connection is established.
    - **Room Management**: Handles the creation, joining, and status checking of rooms.
    - **API Service**: Provides auxiliary HTTP endpoints.
3.  **Redis**: An in-memory database used by the backend to store temporary data, such as room information and lists of participants, utilizing its TTL feature for automatic cleanup of expired rooms.
4.  **TURN/STUN Server (Optional)**: Used to assist WebRTC with NAT traversal, ensuring a higher success rate for P2P connections in complex network environments. STUN is used to discover public IP addresses, while TURN serves as a fallback relay server.

## 2. Data Flow and Interaction Diagram

The following diagram illustrates the main flow for users establishing a connection and transferring files:

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "User A's Browser (Frontend)"
        ClientA[UI Components] --> HooksA[Hooks Layer]
        HooksA --> StoreA[Zustand Store]
        HooksA --> ServiceA[WebRTC Service]
        ServiceA --> StoreA
    end
    subgraph "User B's Browser (Frontend)"
        ClientB[UI Components] --> HooksB[Hooks Layer]
        HooksB --> StoreB[Zustand Store]
        HooksB --> ServiceB[WebRTC Service]
        ServiceB --> StoreB
    end

    subgraph "Server Infrastructure"
        Nginx[Nginx Reverse Proxy]
        Backend[Backend API / Socket.IO]
        Redis[Redis Cache]
        TURN[TURN/STUN Server]
    end

    ServiceA -- 1.&nbsp;Create/Join Room (HTTP/Socket) --> Nginx
    Nginx --> Backend
    Backend -- Read/Write Room Status --> Redis

    ServiceB -- 2.&nbsp;Join Same Room (HTTP/Socket) --> Nginx

    Backend -- 3.&nbsp;Broadcast user join event --> ServiceA
    Backend -- 3.&nbsp;Broadcast user join event --> ServiceB

    ServiceA -- 4.&nbsp;Send Signal (Offer/ICE) --> Backend
    Backend -- 5.&nbsp;Forward Signal --> ServiceB
    ServiceB -- 6.&nbsp;Send Signal (Answer/ICE) --> Backend
    Backend -- 7.&nbsp;Forward Signal --> ServiceA

    ServiceA <-.-> |8.&nbsp;STUN Check| TURN
    ServiceB <-.-> |8.&nbsp;STUN Check| TURN

    ServiceA <-..- |9.&nbsp;P2P Direct Data Transfer| ServiceB
    ServiceA <-.-> |9.&nbsp;TURN Relayed Data Transfer| TURN
    ServiceB <-.-> |9.&nbsp;TURN Relayed Data Transfer| TURN
```

**Flow Description:**

1.  **Room Creation/Joining**: User A's frontend service layer requests the backend to create a unique room ID. The backend records this room in Redis.
2.  **Sharing & Joining**: User A shares the room ID with User B. User B's frontend service layer uses this ID to request joining the room.
3.  **Signaling Exchange**:
    - Once there are two or more users in a room, their respective `WebRTC Service` instances begin exchanging signaling messages through the backend's Socket.IO service.
    - This process includes exchanging network information (ICE candidates) and session descriptions (SDP offers/answers). The backend server acts merely as a "postman" for these messages.
4.  **NAT Traversal**: The browsers use the network information obtained from the signals, along with STUN/TURN servers, to attempt and establish a direct P2P connection.
5.  **P2P Connection Established**: Once the connection is successfully established—which in most cases is a direct peer-to-peer link—all file and text data are transferred directly between User A's and User B's browsers via their `WebRTC Service` instances, without passing through any server. In the rare case of highly restrictive networks where a direct connection cannot be established, data will be relayed through a TURN server. Even in this relayed mode, the data remains end-to-end encrypted by WebRTC and is not visible to the TURN server.

## 3. Design Philosophy

- **Privacy First**: Core file data is never uploaded to the server. The server only acts as an "introducer" or "matchmaker."
- **Frontend-Backend Separation**: Responsibilities are clearly separated. The frontend handles all user interaction and the complex logic of WebRTC; the backend provides lightweight, efficient signaling and room management services.
- **Horizontal Scalability**: The backend is stateless (with state managed in Redis), which theoretically allows it to be scaled horizontally by adding more Node.js instances to handle a large volume of concurrent signaling requests.
